# basebot setup manual

## Abstract

This manual covers the complete installation process of the `basebot`
library, including launching an example bot.

## Installation

1. The presence of a working [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads)
   installation is silently assumed, including the `pip` tool.

2. First of all, the dependency of the library,
   [`websocket-server`](https://github.com/CylonicRaider/websocket-server/)
   has to be installed (if it has not been yet). For that, run

   ```
   pip install https://github.com/CylonicRaider/websocket-server/archive/master.zip
   ```

3. To install `basebot` itself, run

   ```
   pip install https://github.com/CylonicRaider/basebot/archive/master.zip
   ```

4. **Done**!

Depending on the Python version you use, the above command lines may need to
be adapted (_e.g._, `pip` â†’ `pip3`). You can also manually download (or clone)
the repositories and run their `setup.py` files; this is what `pip` does
automatically.

For convenience, a matching version of the `websocket-server` library is
bundled with `basebot`; to install it, ensure its Git submodule is up-to-date
(by running `git submodule update --init`) and run `setup.py install` in the
`.websocket-server` subdirectory.

### Troubleshooting

If you get permission errors, try running the commands above with a `--user`
switch (`pip install --user ...`), or install the packages in a [virtual
environment](https://docs.python.org/glossary.html#term-virtual-environment).

## Testing / example bot

The best way to test whether the installation has succeeded is to run a bot.
For example, save the following source snippet into a file named `testbot.py`
in your source location (either the directory where `basebot.py` lies, or
anywhere if the latter is in the standard module path), and start the bot
from the command line by running `python testbot.py test` in the
corresponding directory. The bot should appear in the room
[*&test*](https://euphoria.leet.nu/room/test) under the nickname *test*.

```python
import sys, basebot

def frobnicator(match, info):
    return match.group(1)[::-1] # Reply with the string reversed.

def calculator(match, info):
    # Good code is self-explaining!
    val1, op, val2 = int(match.group(1)), match.group(2), int(match.group(3))
    if op == '+':
        result = val1 + val2
    elif op == '-':
        result = val1 - val2
    elif op == '*':
        result = val1 * val2
    elif op == '/':
        if val2 == 0:
            return 'Division by zero!'
        result = val1 / val2
    return 'Result: ' + str(result)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    basebot.run_minibot(botname='TestBot', nickname='test',
        short_help='This is a test bot. For a bit more behavior, try '
            'posting a message with a single "test" at the beginning.',
        regexes={'^test$': 'Test!', '^test (.+)$': frobnicator,
                 '^!calc\s+(\d+)\s*([-+*/])\s*(\d+)$': calculator})
```

### Bot template

There is a template file for simple bots in the [template.py](template.py)
file for your convenience.

## Further/advanced notes

### Further reading

For a fuller introduction, see [MANUAL.md](MANUAL.md).

The best source of documentation about the library (I know about) is [the
library itself](basebot.py); read its inline docs for further information,
or use your favorite documentation generator.

### Alternative sites

The bot library has the domain name
[euphoria.leet.nu](https://euphoria.leet.nu) built in as a default. If you
want to run a bot at an alternative site, you can achieve that by setting the
`BASEBOT_URL_TEMPLATE` environment variable, or the `--url-template`
command-line option. It is `{}`-formatted by the bot library with the room
name to enter, and the library tries to connect to the resulting URL.

The default preset is `wss://euphoria.leet.nu/room/{}/ws`, therefore, trying
to enter the room `test` using the default settings would result in a
connection attempt to `wss://euphoria.leet.nu/room/test/ws`.
